.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii oci-utils.conf.d.5
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2018, 2022 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH OCI-UTILS-CONF-D 5 "MAY 2018" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
oci-utils.conf.d \- configuration files for the ocid service

.SH DESCRIPTION

oci-utils can be configured using configuration files in the
.I /etc/oci-utils.conf.d
directory.  The oci-utils package installs a file called
.I 00-oci-utils.conf
in this directory.  This file lists all configuration options and explains their use.  All setting are commented out
using a semicolon at the start of the line.  You can change the oci-utils configuration by uncommenting a setting
and changing its value, however, it is better practice to create a new configuration file in
.I /etc/oci-utils.conf.d
that contains the changed configuration setting only and comments that explain why the change was made.  The
new file must include the section header (e.g. [vnic]) above the changed configuration setting.

Configuration files in
.I /etc/oci-utils.conf.d
are read in alphanumeric order and can override settings in configuration files that are read earlier in that sequence.

.SH EXAMPLES
Create a new configuration file that disables automatic VNIC configuration in
.BR ocid(8):
.PP
.nf
.RS
cat > /etc/oci-utils.conf.d/01-disable-vnic-config.conf << EOF
[vnic]
; do not configure VNICs automatically on this instance
; because in conflicts with...etc...
enabled = False
EOF
.RE
.fi
.PP
Increase the frequency of looking for new iSCSI devices to every 30 seconds:
.PP
.nf
.RS
cat > /etc/oci-utils.conf.d/02-iscsi-scan-interval.conf << EOF
[iscsi]
; scan for new iSCSI devices once an hour only
scan_interval = 3600
EOF
.RE
.fi
.PP

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ocid (8)

