.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii oci-growfs.8
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2018, 2021 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH OCI-GROWFS 8 "AUG 2018" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
/usr/libexec/oci-growfs \- expand a filesystem to its configured size in a compute instance in the Oracle Cloud Infrastructure.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/libexec/oci-growfs [-h] [-y|-n]

.SH DESCRIPTION
When a compute instance is created with a boot volume >= 50GB (default minimum size), or is resized to a larger size, the instance does not automatically use the entire volume. By default, the boot volume will only extend to the minimum size (50GB).

The purpose of
.B oci-growfs
is to expand the root partition to fully utilize the allocated boot volume size.
When the partition already extends to the entire volume, no changes are made to the system.
The script is called by the
.BR ocid
service if this option is enabled by the
.B auto_resize
flag in the
.B [iscsi]
section in
.BR oci-utils.conf.d(5)

For LVM based root filesystem, oci-growfs only support Logical Volume created on Logical Group
built with only one Physical volume.

.B oci-growfs
must be run on a compute instance in the Oracle Cloud Infrastructure, and it requires root privilege.

Note: in the current release, only the root filesystem can be resized using
.B oci-growfs.

Note: in the current release, only
.B xfs
and
.B ext4
filesystems are supported.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP -h | --help
print the usage help information.
.IP -y | --yes
answer 'y' to all questions.
.IP -n | --no
answer 'n' to all questions.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Return an exit status of 0 for success or non-0 if an error occured.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ocid (8)
.BR oci-utils.conf.d (5)
