.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii oci-network-inspector.1
.\"
.\" Copyright(c) 2018 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.\" Licensed under the Universal Permissive License v 1.0 as shown
.\" at http://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl.
.\"
.TH OCI-NETWORK-INSPECTOR 1 "AUG 2018" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
oci-network-inspector \- display Oracle Cloud Infrastructure networking information.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B oci-network-inspector [--help] [-C
.I COMPARTMENT_OCID
.B | --compartment
.I COMPARTMENT_OCID
.B ] [-N
.I VCN_OCID
.B | --vcn
.I VCN_OCID
.B ] [--help]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B oci-network-inspector
utility is used to display networking information for a given VCN or compartment, or for the configured tenancy in the Oracle Cloud Infrastructure.  By default, all VCNs in all compartments accessible by the user will be displayed.

It lists detailed information including security list, IP addresses and associated VNICs and instances in all of the subnets of a given VCN, compartment or the tenancy.

It works on any system that has python36-oci-sdk installed and configured to authenticate with an Oracle Cloud Infrastructure API server.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-C COMPARTMENT_OCID, --compartment COMPARTMENT_OCID"
Specify the compartment you wish to inspect.
.IP "-N VCN_OCID, --vcn VCN_OCID"
Specify the VCN you wish to inspect.
.IP --debug
Print diagnostic messages.
.IP --help
Print a summary of the command line options.
.SH EXAMPLES
.IP "oci-network-inspector"
List all VCNs in all compartments that the user has access to, in the tenancy you configured for the Oracle Cloud Infrastructure SDK.

.IP "oci-network-inspector\ -N\ ocid1.vcn.oc1.iad.aaaaaaaaadkljfasljw3lkj4lkdlkdkj34lkjfkj34jh4kjh3knkjbkjhvoa"
List the network information for the specified VCN.

.IP "oci-network-inspector\ -C\ ocid1.tenancy.oc1..aaaaaaaasdlkjsdlkj34ljclkjcsjcslsc93,kjskdjhfskh3hjskchskjdq"
List the network information for all the VCNs in the specified compartment.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Return an exit status of 0 for success or 1 if an error occurred.
