.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii oci-volume-data.1
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2022 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.\" Licensed under the Universal Permissive License v 1.0 as shown
.\" at http://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl.
.\"
.TH OCI-VOLUME-DATA 1 "JANUARY 2022" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
oci-volume-data - Show data about an iscsi volume.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B oci-volume-data [-k KEY|--key KEY] [-p {name,iqn,ocid,portal,chap,attachestate,avdomain,compartment,attached,size,state}| --par {name,iqn,ocid,portal,chap,attachestate,avdomain,compartment,attached,size,state}] [-v|--value-only]


.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B oci-volume-data
utility shows metadata of an oci iscsi volume. The
.b KEY
argument is mandatory and can be a display name, an ocid (Oracle Cloud IDentifier) or on iqn (iScsi Qualified Name). The
.b PAR argument, if provided, will shown only the values for the specified parameter. If absent, all values will be displayed. If the
.b VALUE-ONLY flag is set, only the values are displayed, not the parameter names.

.B oci-volume-data
expects
.B oci-sdk
and
.B oci-utils
installed. Authentication is attempted via
.B oci-sdk
configuration. If direct authentication fails, the instance principal authentication is tried.

.B oci-volume-data
must be run with root privileges, either as user root or using
.BR sudo(8).

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.nf
.RS
# oci-volume-data --key debian_vol_b --par compartment
              compartment: MyCompartment
           compartment id: ocid1.compartment.oc1..aaaaaaaabbbbbbbccccccccdddddddddeeeeeeeeefffffffff0011223344
.RE
.fi
.PP
shows the compartment name and compartment ocid of the specified volume.
.PP
.nf
.RS
# oci-volume-data --key debian_vol_b --par size --value-only
51GB
.RE
.fi
.PP
only shows the size of the volume.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ocid (8)
.BR oci-utils.conf.d (5)
