.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii oci-kvm.1
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2018, 2019 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.\" Licensed under the Universal Permissive License v 1.0 as shown
.\" at http://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl.
.\"
.TH OCI-KVM 1 "AUGUST 2019" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
oci-kvm - install and remove KVM guests on Oracle Cloud Infrastructure instances
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B oci-kvm create -D|--domain
.I NAME
.B [-d|--disk
.I DISK_PATH
.B ] [-v|--virtual-network
.I NETWORK
.B ] [-n|--net
.I IP
.B ]  [-p|--pool
.I POOL
.B ]  [-s|--disk-size
.I DISK_SIZE
.B ] -V|--virt
.I VIRT-INSTALL_ARGS

.B oci-kvm destroy -D|--domain
.I NAME
.B [--destroy-disks] [--stop] [--force]

.B oci-kvm create-pool  -n|--name
.I NAME
.B {-d
.I DEVICE
.B |-N
.I HOST
.B -p
.I PATH}

.B oci-kvm list-pool [--output-mode MODE]

.B oci-kvm create-network -n|--net
.I NET
.B -N|--network-name
.I NETWORK_NAME
.B -B|--ip-bridge
.I IP_BRIDGE
.B -E|--ip-end
.I IP_END
.B -S|--ip-start
.I IP_START
.B -P|--ip-prefix
IP_PREFIX

.B oci-kvm delete-network -N|--network-name
.I NETWORK_NAME

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B oci-kvm
utility is used to create and configure KVM guests on Oracle Cloud Infrastructure
instances that directly use Oracle Cloud Infrastructure resources, such as block storage and networking. The utility
automates all steps of the guest creation process while also ensuring that Oracle Cloud Infrastructure resources
have not been assigned to more than one KVM guest.  When a guest is no longer needed, the utility can also remove and unconfigure all system resources
assigned to the guest.

The
.B oci-kvm create
subcommand performs all actions required to create a KVM guest that uses Oracle Cloud Infrastructure block
storage and Oracle Cloud Infrastructure VNICs for both the root disk and network interface, respectively.  For block
storage, the device itself is validated and checked to ensure it has not been assigned
to another guest. A storage pool can also be used. For virtual network interfaces, all virtual network infrastructure
is created automatically, including virtual functions, VLANs, etc. indiviual
block storage devices and VNICs that are required for each guest.  Guests cannot share
either a VNIC or a block storage device.

The
.B oci-kvm create-pool
subcommand creates a storage pool for hosting guest virtual disks. Pools can be created on block devices or FSS file systems.

The
.B oci-kvm list-pool
shows data about all pools attached to this instance.

The
.B oci-kvm create-network
subcommand creates a libvirt network that uses an Oracle Cloud Infrastruction VNIC. The created network offers an IP range that is usable by other KVM guests.
See the
.I '--virtual-network'
option of the
.B create
command

The
.B oci-kvm delete-network
subcommand deletes a libvirt network previously created by the
.B create-network
subcommand.

When the oci-utils-kvm package is installed, it changes the configuration of the
.BR ocid(8)
setting
.BR vf_net = true
in the
.BR /etc/oci-utils.conf.d/10-oci-kvm.conf file.
This configuration change causes
.BR ocid(8)
to stop automatically configuring VNICs thereby leaving them for the KVM
tools to manage.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "--destroy-disks"
For the destroy subcommand, specify that all disks based on libvirt storage pool must also be deleted.
.IP "-s|--stop"
For the destroy subcommand, specify that the guest should be first shutdown.
.IP "-f|--force"
For the destroy subcommand, specify that operations will be forced, no gracefull shutdown etc...
.IP "-D NAME, --domain NAME"
For both the
.B create
and
.B destroy
subcommands, operate on the given libvirt domain name.
.IP "-d DISK_PATH, --disk DISK_PATH"
For the
.B create
subcommand, specify the path to the block device to act as the root device for the new guest.  If this
option is not specified, an unused block device is chosen arbitrarily. This option is exclusive with --pool.
.br
For the
.B create-pool
subcommand, specify the block device to be used to build the storage pool
.IP "-N NETWORK_NAME, --network-name NETWORK_NAME"
The name of the virtual (libvirt) network for the
.B create-network
and
.B delete-network
subcommands.
.IP "-n NAME, --name NAME"
For the
.B create-pool
subcommand, specify the name of the pool. When not specified, the default name is the chosen disk name.
.IP "-n IP, --net IP"
When entering the
.B create
subcommand, on bare metal instance host, specify the IP address of the Oracle Cloud Infrastructure VNIC to be assigned to the new guest.
On a virtual machine instance host,specify the name of the Oracle Cloud Infrastructure VNIC (can be repeated multiple times). If this
option is not specified, an unused VNIC is chosen arbitrarily.
For the
.B create-network
subcommand, specify the IP address of the Oracle Cloud Infrastructure VNIC that is needed to build the network.
.IP "-v VIRTUAL_NETWORK, --virtual-network VIRTUAL_NETWORK"
Specify the name of the libvirt virtual network to attach the guest to (can be repeated multiple times).
.IP "-N HOST, --netfshost HOST"
For the
.B create-pool
subcommand, specify the name or IP of the NFS server.
.IP "-p PATH, --path PATH"
For the
.B create-pool
subcommand, specify the path of the NETFS resource.
.IP "-p POOL, --pool POOL"
Specify the name of the pool to be used to create the virtual disk.
When used, the disk size must be also specified. To display the list of pools available on the host, use
the following command
.B /usr/bin/virsh pool-list
command.
This option is exclusive with --disk.
.IP "-s DISK_SIZE, --disk-size DISK_SIZE"
Specify the size of the disk in GB  to be created within the given storage pool. This option is mandatory when the --pool option is specified.
.IP "-V VIRT-INSTALL_ARGS, --virt VIRT-INSTALL_ARGS"
Specify virt-install arguments. Each argument that is specified after either -V or --virt is passed into virt-install when
this tool executes that command. The
.B  oci-kvm
 utility provides the following arguments:
--hvm, --name, --cpu, --disk, --network.
.IP "-B IP_BRIDGE, --ip-bridge IP_BRIDGE"
For the
.B create-network
subcommand, specify the IP address of the bridge to be used to build the virtual network.
.IP "-S IP_START, --ip-start IP_START"
For the
.B create-network
subcommand, specify the first IP address in the virtual network address space.
.IP "-E IP_END, --ip-end IP_END"
For the
.B create-network
subcommand, specify the last IP address in the virtual network address space.
.IP "-P IP_PREFIX, --ip-prefix IP_PREFIX"
For the
.B create-network
subcommand, specify the network prefix in the virtual network address space.
.IP --output-mode={parsable,table,json,text}
Display list of pools as table, using json format, simple text or using parsable output
(default is table)
.IP --help

.SH EXAMPLES

oci-kvm create-pool --disk /dev/sdb --name vm_pool
.RS 3
Creates a storage pool on disk
.I /dev/sdb
with the name
.I vm_pool.
.RE

oci-kvm create-pool --netfshost 192.168.10.9 --path /FileSystem-20190405-1454 --name guest_pool
.RS 3
Creates a storage pool on NFS resource
.I FileSystem-20190405-1454
on NFS server
.I 192.168.10.9
with name
.I guest_pool
.RE

oci-kvm create-network --network-name vnic003 --net 100.100.251.95 --ip-bridge 192.168.200.1 --ip-start 192.168.200.10 --ip-end 192.168.200.100 --ip-prefix 24
.RS 3
Creates a virtual network named
.I vnic003
on VNIC with
.I 100.110.251.95
as the IP address.
.RE

oci-kvm create --domain guestol79 --pool vm_pool --virtual-network vnic003 --disk-size=24 --virt --vcpus 4 --memory 8192 --boot cdrom,hd --location /isos/ol79_x86_64.iso --nographics --console pty,target_type=serial --console pty,target_type=virtio --noautoconsole --os-variant=ol7.9 --extra-args="console=ttyS0,115200n8"
.RS 3
Creates a guest
.I guestol79
with a root disk of
.I 24GB
on storage pool
.I vm_pool
using network
.I vnic003
with
.I 4
cpus,
.I 8GB
memory.
.RE

oci-kvm create --domain guestol7 --pool kvm-pool --net 100.200.10.20  --disk-size=16 --virt --vcpus 4 --memory 8192 --boot cdrom,hd --location /isos/ol79_x86_64.iso --nographics --console pty,target_type=serial --console pty,target_type=virtio --noautoconsole --os-variant=ol7.9 --initrd-inject /root/guestol7_002_ks.cfg --extra-args="ks=file:guestol7_ks.cfg console=ttyS0,115200n8"
.RS 3
Creates a guest
.I
guestol7
on pool
.I
kvm-pool
using passthrough network
.I 100.200.10.20
on a
.I 16GB
disk with
.I 4
cpus and
.I 8GB
memory and using a kickstart file.
.RE

oci-kvm list-pool --output-mode json
.RS 3
Shows data about pools attached to this instance in json format.
.RE

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Return an exit status of 0 for success or 1 if an error occurred.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ocid (8)
.BR oci-utils.conf.d (5)
