.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii oci-notify.1
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2020Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.\" Licensed under the Universal Permissive License v 1.0 as shown
.\" at http://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl.
.\"
.TH OCI-NOTIFY 1 "AUGUST 2020" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
oci-notify - Send a message and data to a Oracle Cloud Infrastructure
notification service.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B oci-notify
usage

.B oci-notify
config OCID_TOPIC

.B oci-notify
message [-t|--title] TITLE [-f|--file] FILE

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B oci-notify
utility sends a message to an
.B Oracle Cloud Infrastructure
notification service. A message is composed of a title and file. Large files
are split into 64KB chunks. It is the responsibility of the notification service
configuration where and how the messages are delivered.

.B oci-notify
requires the services of the python
.B oci-sdk
package.

The
.B oci-utils
package has a dependency on the
.B oci-sdk
package and the correct version of the python
.B oci-sdk
package is installed at
.B oci-utils
install time.

.B oci-notify
expects the configuration files by default in
.B /etc/oci-utils
but this is overruled by the environment variable
.B OCI_CONFIG_DIR.
.B oci-notify
collects the location from the private key from the configuration file.

.B oci-notify
truncates the header of the message to 128 characters.

.B oci-notify
limits the size of the message to 10 chunks of 64KB each.

The message can be a flat file, a url or a string/text. If the messags is not a url and the path in the message does not
exists, the message is send as such.

.B oci-notify
must be run with root privileges, either as user root or using
.B sudo(8).

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "oci-notify usage"
usage: oci-notify-main.py [-h] {config,message} ...

This utility assists with sending messages to an Oracle Cloud Infrastructure
notification service. The length of the message title is limited to 128 bytes.
The message file is split in 65536KB chunks and send as separate messages. The
number of chunks is limited to 10. The message file can be a flat file, a url
or a string. See the manual page for more information.

positional arguments:
  {usage,config,message}
    usage           Displays usage
    config          Configure the notification server.
    message         Send a message.

optional arguments:
  -h, --help        show this help message and exit

.IP "oci-notify config <topic>"
sets the notification service topic by creating or updating the
.B oci.conf
file. The
.B topic
is the
.B ocid
of the notification service.

.IP "oci-notify message --title <subject> --file <file>
sends the file
.B file
with subject
.B title
to the configured notification server of the
.B Oracle Cloud Infrastructure.

.B subject
is a text string used as message header, email subject, etc ... The
.B subject
is prepended with the instance name.

.B file
is the full or relative path of a flat file, a url or a string/text to send.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Return an exit status of 0 for success or a positive value if an error occurred.

.SH EXAMPLES
.IP "oci-notify config ocid1.onstopic.oc1.<region>.<nofication id>"
.IP "oci-notify message --title 'memory information' --file /proc/meminfo"
.IP "df -h > /tmp/diskdata; du -sh /* >> /tmp/diskdata; oci-notify message --title 'disk usage information' --file /tmp/diskdata"
.IP "oci-notify message --title 'sending data from the web' --file https://docs.oracle.com/en/operating-systems/oracle-linux/8/licenses/lic-intro.html"
.IP "oci-notify message --title 'sending a text' --file 'Today is a beautiful day'"

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ocid (8)
.BR oci-utils.conf.d (5)
