.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii oci-image-migrate.1
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2020 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.\" Licensed under the Universal Permissive License v 1.0 as shown
.\" at http://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl.
.\"
.TH OCI-IMAGE-MIGRATE 1 "JUNE 2019" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
oci-image-migrate \- assist the migration of on premise virtual machines to the
Oracle Cloud Infrastructure
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B oci-image-migrate [-i|--input-image
.I input_image
.B ] [-y|--yes] [-v|--verbose] [--help]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B oci-image-migrate
utility prepares an on-premise legacy image for importing into the
.B Oracle Cloud Infrastructure.

.B oci-image-migrate
.IP \[bu] 2
verifies and validates the prerequisites for the import of the image;
.IP \[bu]
disables the network interfaces except the primary one which is
set up as a dhcp client;
.IP \[bu]
installs extra software packages of which the cloud-init package is
highly recommended; the list of software packages which should be
installed is specified in the configuration file, /etc/oci-utils/oci-migrate-conf.yaml;
.IP \[bu]
as
.B oci-image-migrate
tries to access remote servers hosting software repositories for the image beiing processed,
it is important nameserver and proxy settings are allowing those repositories can
be reached.
.IP \[bu]
.B oci-image-migrate
set the default cloud user to
.B opc
regardless what the default of the cloud-init for the operating system would be. See also
.B /etc/oci-utils/oci-migrate-conf.yaml file.
.RS 0

.B oci-image-migrate
must be run with root privileges, either as user root or using
.BR sudo(8)
on an on-premise physical or virtual server.

.B oci-image-migrate
supports the migration of qcow2 and vmdk single file images.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-i|--input-image"
The full path name of the on-premise custom image. This option is mandatory.

.IP "-v|--verbose"
Show information about the image file on the console. This information is also
written to a result file in /var/tmp.

.IP "-y|--yes"
The answer on Yes/No questions is supposed to be yes

.IP "--help"
Print a summary of the command line options.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Returns an exit status of 0 for success or 1 if an error occured.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.nf
.RS
oci-image-migrate -i /data/images/Ubuntu1804.qcow2
.RE
.fi
.PP
Verifies if the conditions for import of the image file /data/images/Ubuntu1804.qcow2
in the
.B Oracle Cloud Infrastructure
are met, updates the network configuration, installs the cloud-init package,
sets a default cloud user.

.SH FILES
.B /etc/oci-utils/oci-migrate-conf.yaml

.SH KNOWN ISSUES

IP "The cloud-init service does not start at first boot in OCI." 0.4i

The cloud-init service, although enabled does not start at first boot in
OCI. This was noticed on ubuntu18 server and is probably related to
the situation described in https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1669675.

The workaround:
.nr step 1 1
.RS
.IP \n[step] 5
connect to the instance using vnc or serial console.
.IP \n+[step]
delete the contents of /var/lib/cloud.
.IP \n+[step]
eventually delete /var/log/cloud* files.
.IP \n+[step]
explicitly start the cloud-init service.
.IP \n+[step]
reboot the instance.
.IP \[bu]
or run the script
.B /usr/local/bin/reinitialise_cloud_init.sh and reboot.
.RE
.IP "/dev/disk/by-id entries in /etc/fstab are not supported."
Entries in /etc/fstab as /dev/disk/by-id are not supported yet.

The workaround:
.RS
.IP \[bu]
update the /etc/fstab file so it refers to partitions via label, uuid, logical volume.
.RE
.IP "The instance fails to find boot disk."
The instance created from a migrated image does not boot, is unable to find boot disk because
.B initramfs
does not include the correct kernel module to recognise the bootable partition. The issue
is being worked on.

The workaround:
.RS
.IP \[bu]
Rebuild initramfs before migration so it includes all modules and
rebuilding again after first boot with the necessary ones only.
.RE
.IP  "Images with an xfs version 5.15.0 or higher fail to convert from an instance with xfs 5.4.0 (or lower)"
.B oci-image-migrate
fails with

.B Failed to mount /dev/nbd[npm], missing driver, filesystem corruption...: Mount /dev/nbd3p3 failed: 32

Boot and/or root partition of an image created with
.B xfs-progs 5.15.0
or higher fails to mount on an instance with
.B xfs-progs 5.4.0
installed.
.B xfs-progs 5.15.0
comes with the
.B UEK7 kernel
which is the default on
.B Oracle Linux 9
and optional on
.B Oracle Linux 8
but not available on
.B Oracle Linux 7.

The workaround:
.RS
.IP \[bu]
Install
.B oci-utils-migrate
on a system with
.B UEK7
kernel installed and run the migrate from there.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR oci-image-migrate-upload(1)
.BR oci-image-migrate-import(1)
.BR ocid(8)
.BR oci-metadata(1)


.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2018, 2021 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
