.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii oci-image-migrate-upload.1
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2020 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.\" Licensed under the Universal Permissive License v 1.0 as shown
.\" at http://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl.
.\"
.TH OCI-IMAGE-MIGRATE 1 "JAN 2020" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
oci-image-migrate-upload \- assist the upload of an on-premise image to the
.B object storage
of the Oracle Cloud Infrastructure
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B oci-image-migrate-upload  [-i|--image-name
.I image name
.B ] [-b|--bucket-name
.I bucket_name
.B ] [-o|--output-name
.I output name
.B ] [-y|--yes] [-v|--verbose] [--help]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B oci-image-migrate-upload
utility uploads an on-premise image file to the
.B object storage
of the
.B Oracle Cloud Infrastructure.

.B oci-image-migrate-upload
verifies the existence of the on-premise image file, of the
.B object storage.
It also checks if and image with the same name already exists
in the
.B object storage.

.B oci-image-migrate-import
does not need to be run with root priviliges as long as the user has the
correct priviliges to access the
.B Oracle Cloud Infrastructure
and write priviliges in the directory where log and result files are written,
as well as in the log file itself (by default /var/tmp/oci-utils.log).


.B oci-image-migrate-import
requires the
.B oci-cli
utility installed and configured.

See
.BR https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Content/API/SDKDocs/cliinstall.htm
or
.BR https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Content/API/SDKDocs/climanualinst.htm
for more information.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-i|--image-name"
The name of the image as present in the object storage. This option is mandatory.
.IP "-b|--bucket-name"
The name of the object storage or bucket in the
.B Oracle Cloud Infrastructure
where the imagefile is to be stored. This option is mandatory.
.IP "-o|--output-name"
The image name or the name of the image as it will be stored in the
.B object storage of the
.B Oracle Cloud Infrastructure.
This argument is optional, the default is the image name.
.IP "-y|--yes"
The answer on Yes/No questions is supposed to be yes
.IP "-v|--verbose"
Show more information about the import on the console.
.IP "--help"
Print a summary of the command line options.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Returns an exit status of 0 for success or 1 if an error occured.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.nf
.RS
oci-image-migrate-upload --image-name /images/OracleLinux7.vmdk -b MyObjectStorage --output-name OracleLinux7U7 -v
.RE
.fi
.PP
Uploads the image file /images/OracleLinux7.vmdk , if it exists on premise to the object MyObjectStorage of the
.B Oracle Cloud Infrastructure
as OracleLinux7U7 on condition there is not yet and image with the same name present.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR oci-image-migrate(1)
.BR oci-image-migrate-import(1)
.BR ocid (8)
.BR oci-metadata (1)


.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2020 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
