.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii oci-iscsi-config.1
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2017, 2022 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.\" Licensed under the Universal Permissive License v 1.0 as shown
.\" at http://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl.
.\"
.TH OCI-ISCSI-CONFIG 1 "MAY 2018" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
oci-iscsi-config \- configure iSCSI devices on Oracle Cloud Infrastructure compute instances
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B oci-iscsi-config
sync [-h|--help] [-a|--apply] [-y|--yes]

.B oci-iscsi-config
usage

.B oci-iscsi-config
show [-h|--help] [-C COMP|--compartments COMP] [-A|--all] [--output-mode MODE] [--details] [--no-truncate]

.B oci-iscsi-config
show-all [-h|--help] [--output-mode MODE]

.B oci-iscsi-config
create [-h|--help] [-S SIZE|--size SIZE] [-v NAME |--volume-name NAME] [--output-mode MODE] [--attach-volume ] [-c | --chap ]

.B oci-iscsi-config
attach [-h|--help] [-I IQNS|--iqns IQNS] [-u USER |--username USER] [-p PASSWORD |--password PASSWORD] [-c | --chap ]

.B oci-iscsi-config
detach [-h|--help] [-I IQNS|--iqns IQNS] [-f | --force]

.B oci-iscsi-config
destroy [-h|--help] [-O OCIDS |--ocids OCIDS] [-y | --yes]

.SH INSTALLATION and AUTHORIZATION

.B oci-network-config
requires the services of the python
.B oci-sdk
package.


The
.B oci-utils
package has a dependency on the
.B oci-sdk
package and the correct version of the python
.B oci-sdk
package is installed at
.B oci-utils
install time.

To use the Oracle Cloud Infrastructure services authorization is required. One option is direct authentication via a
config file.  See https://docs.us-phoenix-1.oraclecloud.com/Content/API/Concepts/sdkconfig.htm
for more information.

.B oci-utils
can be configured to allow root to use a non-privileged user's Oracle Cloud Infrastructure configuration files.

Another option for authorizing the use of Oracle Cloud Infrastructure services from an instance is
using Instance Principals.  The Oracle Cloud Infrastructure SDK does not need configuration on the
instance when the instance is part of a dynamic group that was granted access
to Oracle Cloud Infrastructure services.
See https://docs.us-phoenix-1.oraclecloud.com/Content/Identity/Tasks/callingservicesfrominstances.htm for further details.


.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B oci-iscsi-config
utility is used to display and/or configure iSCSI devices attached to a
compute instance running in the Oracle Cloud Infrastructure.
Without any command line options,
.B oci-iscsi-config
lists devices that need attention.

To perform attach/detach operations
.B oci-iscsi-config
must be run with root privileges, either as user root or using
.BR sudo(8).

While
.B oci-iscsi-config
can be run by itself, it works best in conjunction with the
.BR ocid(8)
service.
When the
.BR ocid(8)
service is running, it keeps track of iSCSI devices and caches the information for
.B oci-iscsi-config,
which is then able to display all information without root privileges.
It also attaches/detaches devices automatically if they do not require
manual interaction.

.B oci-iscsi-config
uses the OCI python SDK to display additional information about the iSCSI devices and can display all
available Oracle Cloud Infrastructure storage volumes, not just the ones already assigned to the
instance.  The second version of the command can be used to create a new Oracle Cloud Infrastructure storage volume and
assign it to the instance without the use of the Web-based Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Console,
or to destroy a volume that is not attached to any instances.


.TP
oci-iscsi-config show
Show block storage information
.RS
.IP -C,--compartments=COMP
Display iSCSI devices in the given comma separated list of comparment(s) or
all compartments if COMP is "all".
.IP -A,--all
Display all iSCSI devices. By default only devices that are not attached to an instance are listed.
.IP --output-mode={parsable,table,json,text}
Display list of block volumes as table, using json format, simple text or using parsable output
(default is table)
.IP --details
Display detailed information
.IP --no-truncate
Do not truncate long values during output
.RE
.TP
oci-iscsi-config show-all
Show block storage information, shortcut for oci-iscsi-config show --all --details --no-truncate.
.RS
.IP --output-mode={parsable,table,json,text}
Display list of block volumes as table, using json format, simple text or using parsable output
(default is table)
.RE
.TP
oci-iscsi-config sync
Try to attach available block devices: the devices which were detached explicitly and those whose attachment by the
.BR ocid(8)
service failed. An
.BR ocid --refresh iscsi
operation is always executed.
.RS
.IP -a,--apply
Perform needed operation, not just list them
.IP -y,--yes
Assume 'yes' to all questions
.RE
.TP
oci-iscsi-config usage
Display usage
.TP
oci-iscsi-config create
Creates a block volume
.RS
.IP -S,--size=SIZE
Size of the block volume to create in GB
.IP -v,--volume-name=VOLUME_NAME
Name of the block volume to create
.IP --attach-volume
Attach the volume after creation
.IP -c,--chap
Attach the volume with 'Require Chap Credentials' flag
.RE
.TP
oci-iscsi-config attach
Attempt  to  attach the device with the given IQN or OCID.  When
using an IQN, the volume must already be attached (assigned)  to
the  instance  in  the Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Console.  The
Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Python SDK is required for selecting
volumes  using  their  OCID.   This  option can be used multiple
times to attach multiple devices at  the  same  time.   Requires
root privileges.
.RS
.IP -I,--iqns=IQNS
Comma separated list of OCID(s) or IQN(s) of the iSCSI devices to be attached
.IP -u,--username=USER
Use USER as the user name when attaching a device that requires CHAP authentication
.IP -p,--password=PASSWORD
Use PASSWD as the password when attaching a device that requires CHAP authentication
.IP -c,--chap
Attach the volume with 'Require Chap Credentials' flag
.RE
.TP
oci-iscsi-config detach
Detach  the device with the given IQN.  If the volume (or
any partition of the volume) is mounted, this option will
attempt  to  unmount  it  first.  This option can be used
multiple times to detach multiple  devices  at  the  same
time. Requires root privileges.
.RS
.IP -I,--iqns=IQNS
Comma separated list of OCID(s) of the iSCSI devices to be detached
.IP -f,--force
Continue detaching even if device cannot be unmounted
.RE
.TP
oci-iscsi-config destroy
Destroy the block storage volume  with  the  given  OCID.
Warning: this is irreversible.  The volume must not be
attached to any instances.
.RS
.IP -O,--ocids=OCIDS
OCID(s) of volumes to be destroyed
.IP -y,--yes
Assume yes, otherwise be interactive


.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.nf
.RS
sudo oci-iscsi-config create --size 100 --volume-name my-storage --attach-volume
.RE
.fi
.PP
Creates a new storage volume named my-storage and attaches it to this
instance.  See
.BR oci-utils.conf.d(5)
for information about configuring oci-utils to work as the root user.
.PP
.nf
.RS
sudo oci-iscsi-config attach --iqns=ocid1.volume.oc1.phx.abyhqljrfuj4t76qpelfeox2hktcpt6gkz3fqqkajshdkajshdfkajfdjkmq
.RE
.fi
.PP
Attaches the given volume to this instance.
.PP
.nf
.RS
sudo oci-iscsi-config attach --iqns=ocid1.volume.oc1.phx.abyhqljrfuj4t76qpelfeox2hktcpt6gkz3fqqkajshdkajshdfkajfdjkmq --chap
.RE
.fi
.PP
Attaches the given volume to this instance with the 'Require Chap Credentials' flag.
.PP
.nf
.RS
sudo oci-iscsi-config detach --iqns=iqn.2015-12.com.oracleiaas:765083d7-c23c-4354-a51a-b72312334267
.RE
.fi
.PP
Detach the given volume.  If the volume (or a partition of the volume) is attached, it is unmounted before detaching the volume.
.PP
.nf
.RS
sudo oci-iscsi-config show --output-mode=json
.RE
.fi
[{"Attached device": "sda", "Size": "46.6G"}, {"Volume name": "foo_2_64", "Attached device": "sdb", "Size": "64G"}, {"Volume name": "foo_2_128", "Attached device": "sdc", "Size": "128G"}]

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Return an exit status of 0 for success or 1 if an error occured.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ocid (8)
.BR sudo (8)
.BR oci-utils.conf.d (5)