.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii oci-attached-volumes.1
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2022 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.\" Licensed under the Universal Permissive License v 1.0 as shown
.\" at http://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl.
.\"
.TH OCI-ATTACHED-VOLUMES 1 "SEPTEMBER 2022" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
oci-attached-volumes \- Collect data of iscsi volumes attached to this instance.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B oci-attached-volumes
usage

.B oci-attached-volumes
attached [-h|--help] [-i|--iqn] [-a|--all] [-o|--output-mode MODE]

.B oci-attached-volumes
all [-h|--help] [-o|--output-mode MODE]

.B oci-attached-volumes
uses  the services of the python3
.B oci-sdk
package.

.SH DESCRIPTION
If the Oracle Cloud Infrastructure services authorisation allows listing the block volumes,
.B oci-attached-volumes
can show more details on the attached and other volumes. Otherwise only the
.B iqn, ip address and port
are displayed. More, if there is no authorisation to list all block volumes, the
.B attached option falls back to

.B oci-attached-volume
attached --iqn

and the
.B all
option shows a message and exits.

.B oci-attached-volumes
must be run with root privileges, either as user root or using
.BR sudo(8).


.TP
oci-attached-volumes attached
Show data on attached block volumes.
.RS
.IP -i,--iqn
Displays the ipaddress, the port and the iqn of the attached block volumes
.IP -a,--all
Displays the ipaddress, the port, the iqn, the display name, the create date and the volume of the attached block volumes. The 
flags
.B --iqn
and
.B --all
are mutually exclusive.
.IP --output-mode={json,text,parsable}
Display list of the attached block volumes using json format, simple text or using parsable output.
(default is text)
.RE
.TP
oci-attache-volume all
Show data on all block volumes in the availability domain.
.RS
.IP --output-mode={json,text,parsable}
Display list of block volumes using json format, simple text or using parsable output
(default is text)


.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.nf
.RS
sudo oci-attached-volumes attached --iqn --output-mode=parsable
.RE
.PP
.nf
.RS
sudo oci-attached-volumes all --output-mode=text
.RE
.fi
