.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii oci-image-migrate-import.1
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2020 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.\" Licensed under the Universal Permissive License v 1.0 as shown
.\" at http://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl.
.\"
.TH OCI-IMAGE-MIGRATE 1 "JAN 2020" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
oci-image-migrate-import \- assist the import of an image in the 
.B object storage
to the 
.B custom images
repository of the Oracle Cloud Infrastructure
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B oci-image-migrate-import  [-i|--image-name
.I image name
.B ] [-b|--bucket-name
.I bucket_name
.B ] [-c|--compartment-name
.I compartment name
.B ] [-d|--display-name
.I display name
.B ] [-l|--launch-mode
.I [PARAVIRTUALIZED|EMULATED|NATIVE]
.B ] [-y|--yes] [-v|--verbose] [--help]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B oci-image-migrate-import
utility imports an image file residing in an object storage into the custom 
images repository of
.B Oracle Cloud Infrastructure.

.B oci-image-migrate-import
verifies the existence of the image file and the object storage.
It also checks if and image with the same name already exists
in the object storage.

.B oci-image-migrate-import
does not need to be run with root priviliges as long as the user has the
correct priviliges to access the
.B Oracle Cloud Infrastructure
and write priviliges in the directory where log and result files are written,
as well as in the log file itself (by default /var/tmp/oci-utils.log).

.B oci-image-migrate-import
requires the
.B oci-cli
utility installed and configured.

See
.BR https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Content/API/SDKDocs/cliinstall.htm
or
.BR https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Content/API/SDKDocs/climanualinst.htm
for more information.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-i|--image-name"
The name of the on-premise image. This option is mandatory.
.IP "-b|--bucket-name"
The name of the object storage or bucket in the
.B Oracle Cloud Infrastructure
where the imagefile is to be stored. This option is mandatory.
.IP "-c|--compartment-name"
The name of the destination compartment. This option is mandatory.
.IP "-d|--display-name"
The image name or the name the image will be saved in the
.B custom images
repository in the
.B Oracle Cloud Infrastructure.
This argument is optional, the default is the image name.
.IP "-l|--launch-mode"
The mode an instance created form the custom image will be started. Possible
modes are PARAVIRTUALIZED, EMULATED and NATIVE. The default is PARAVIRTUALIZED.
.IP "-y|--yes"
The answer on Yes/No questions is supposed to be yes
.IP "-v|--verbose"
Show more information about the import on the console.
.IP "--help"
Print a summary of the command line options.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Returns an exit status of 0 for success or 1 if an error occured.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.nf
.RS
oci-image-migrate-import --image-name /images/OracleLinux7.vmdk -b MyObjectStorage -C MyCompartment -l EMULATED --display-name OracleLinux7U7 -v
.RE
.fi
.PP
Imports the image file /images/OracleLinux7.vmdk, on condition it exists, to the object storage of
.B Oracle Cloud Infrastructure
as OracleLinux7U7 if there is not yet and image with the same name present.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR oci-image-migrate(1)
.BR oci-image-migrate-upload(1)
.BR ocid (8)
.BR oci-metadata (1)


.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2020 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
