.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii oci-metadata.1
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2017, 2019 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.\" Licensed under the Universal Permissive License v 1.0 as shown
.\" at http://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl.
.\"
.TH OCI-METADATA 1 "MAY 2018" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
oci-metadata \- display Oracle Cloud Infrastructure compute instance metadata
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B oci-metadata [-h|--human-readable] [-j|--json] [-g
.I KEY
.B | --get
.I KEY
.B ] [-u
.I KEY=VALUE [KEY=VALUE, ...]
.B | --update
.I KEY=VALUE [KEY=VALUE, ...]
.B ] [--export] [--trim] [--value-only][--help] [-i|--instance-id
.I OCID
.B ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B oci-metadata
utility is used to display or update metadata for a compute instance running in the Oracle
Cloud Infrastructure.  Without any command line options all available metadata is displayed.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP -h,\ --human-readable
(default) Print the public metadata in a form intended for humans.
This output format is not stable and is not intended for scripting.
See the -j, --json, --trim, --export options for other formats.
.IP -j,\ --json
Print the instance metadata in JSON format, intended for scripting.
.IP "-g KEY, --get KEY"
Search for the given
.B KEY
in the metadata and only display matching entries.  For example

.B oci-metadata -g macAddr

displays the MAC address of each VNIC interface.  Use the JSON output to see all available keys.
.B KEY
is not case sensitive, but it has to match the entire key.  You can use this option multiple times to display more than one key.

.B KEY
can also be a path traversing metadata structure from the root node "instance", for example

.B oci-metadata -g '/vnics/*/vnicid'

displays the VNIC ID of each VNIC.  You can use the JSON output to inspect
the structure of the metadata.

.IP "-u KEY=VALUE [KEY=VALUE  ...], --update KEY=VALUE [KEY=VALUE  ...]"
Update the value for the given key(s).

This option requires the Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Python SDK to be installed and configured.

.B VALUE
can be a string, a JSON value or a pointer to a file with JSON content
in the following format:
.B KEY=file:/path/to/file

By default key-value pairs are added or
updated in the extendedMetadata part of the instance metadata.  The exceptions
to this are displayName, metadata and extendedMetadata.  Changing displayName
updates the name given to the instance, so updating it also changes the way the
instance is displayed in the Oracle Cloud Infrastructure console.
When updating metadata or extendedMetadata the value must be a dictionary
in JSON format. This dictionary then replaces all key/value pairs.

Note that when updating metadata, the
.B ssh_authorized_keys
key must be included in the dictionary and the corresponding value must be
the same as the ssh key used when the instance was created.

You can use this option multiple times. For example:

.B oci-metadata -u displayName="test-name"   extendedMetadata=file://home/opc/extended_metadata.json

This will set the "displayName", and "extendedMetadata" to the specified values.

When displaying instance metadata, the "metadata" and "extendedMetadata"
elements are merged and displayed under "metadata".  The difference between
"metadata" and "extendedMetadata" is that "extendedMetadata" keys can be set
to structured data, while "metadata" keys can only have string values.
Refer to the Oracle Cloud Infrastructure API documentation for
.B UpdateInstanceDetails
for more information.

.IP --value-only
Used with one -g or --get option, print only the values matching the get key.

.IP --export
Used with the -g option, print a shell command to export the keys as
environment variables.

.IP --trim
Used with the -g option, trim the key path to the last component, e.g. 'instance/metadata/ssh_authorized_keys/' to 'ssh_authorized_keys', making the output more
concise.  If the key matches multiple keys, only the first one found is printed.
Use a path to select a specific key.  See
.B --get
for more details.

When used with the
.B --json
option, this will return the same JSON data that was assigned to the key using
the
.B --update
option, removing the "instance" and "metadata" nodes.

.IP "-i OCID, --instance-id OCID"

Get or update the metadata of the instance with the given
.B OCID.
By default,
.B oci-metadata
works with the metadata of the instance it is running on.

This option requires the Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Python SDK to be installed and configured.

.IP --help
Print a summary of the command line options.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.nf
.RS
oci-metadata -u myKey="some value"
.RE
.fi
.PP
Creates a new key or updates an existing key called
.B myKey
in the extended metadata, setting the value to
.B "some value".
.PP
.nf
.RS
oci-metadata -u jsonKey=file:/home/jason/data.json
.RE
.fi
.PP
Sets the value of
.B jsonKey
to the contents of the file
.B /home/jason/data.json
.PP
.nf
.RS
oci-metadata -u jsonKey='{ "name": "Jason", "age": "34" }'
.RE
.fi
.PP
Sets the value of
.B jsonKey
to JSON data given on the command line.

Examples for querying the value of
.B jsonKey
.PP
.nf
.RS
oci-metadata -g jsonKey
Instance details:
  Instance Metadata:
    jsonKey:
      age: 34
      name: Jason
.RE
.fi
.PP

.PP
.nf
.RS
oci-metadata -g jsonKey --trim
age: 34
name: Jason
.RE
.fi
.PP

.PP
.nf
.RS
oci-metadata -g jsonKey -j
{
  "instance": {
    "metadata": {
      "jsonKey": {
        "age": "34",
        "name": "Jason"
      }
    }
  }
}
.RE
.fi
.PP

.PP
.nf
.RS
oci-metadata -g jsonKey -j --trim
{
  "age": "34",
  "name": "Jason"
}
.RE
.fi
.PP

.PP
.nf
.RS
oci-metadata -g displayName --export
export displayName="my-instance"
.RE
.fi
.PP

.PP
.nf
.RS
oci-metadata -g displayName --value-only
my-instance
.RE
.fi
.PP

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Return an exit status of 0 for success or 1 if an error occured.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ocid (8)
.BR oci-utils.conf.d (5)
